In game devs, destruction is a luxury.
Most indie devs just delete the object
and play a sound effect. But today,
we're going to fix that. I'm going to
show you two ways to break your art in
Pixel Lab. The obvious way and the smart
way. So, here we are in a sprite and we
have a vase. Pretty nice vase.
And the first thing you would think to
destroy it like or to damage it would be
to go to edit image, right? And we got a
couple options. We got the normal edit
image and the pro version. The pro
version is more expensive. It uses 40
generations per edit and the normal one
uses one generation per edit of course.
So let's try the normal one. So here we
have the instruction which is basically
you tell the model what you want to
happen to the image. Here I'm just going
to prompt something like make the vase
look damaged with cracks. Then we have
the guidance weight which is how much
you want the model to basically listen
to your prompt. And then we have the
target palette which for this example I
will use current image because we
already have a small palette of the
vase, right? But you can use a color
palette or you can use none and just
have the AI do its thing. And then we
have the output method which of course
you can put it in a new frame, new
layer, etc. Here we have other options
like use selection tool to select
painting area. So that would be if the
image is too big like there if your
resolution is too big, you can just
select an area with the limitations of
the size that the model can handle. And
then we of course have the removed
background which we'll use since we
don't have a background. And there you
go. We got a damaged base, right? It's
pretty nice. And then you can basically
just go back and I don't know do it
again like generate it again just to
have another another frame of the
damaged face. But then you're not
getting all the consistency of it
getting damaged, right? You're just
getting randomly damaged bases with
different cracks, different damage. And
here I'm going to prompt it more cracked
and pieces. Right. And there we can
already see a small limitation.
It won't give you exactly what you asked
for, right? It'll do its best to do like
I asked it I asked for it to be in
pieces, but it didn't really break it
apart, right? It just kept giving it
more cracks and whatnot. So now let's
switch to this wooden barrel, right?
Let's go back to the edit image tool,
the normal one, not the pro one. And now
I'm just going to prompt something like
make the barrel make the barrel be open.
Right? And that as you can see it does
the job. It literally does it like it
opened it up. It made made a hole in it.
Like we can see everything. But then if
you ask for more complex things like
make the barrel be damaged, visual
damage, cracks and whatnot. And we try
that. And now you see it just added a
bit of damage.
It didn't really do exactly what we
really wanted, right? And then I can
even add more prompting like in pieces
and you'll see it doesn't do it like
it's it's just hard. Look, it just it
just made another barrel basically. So
the edit tool, the edit image tool is
recommended for some stuff, but when it
starts getting hard for it, you know,
you got to switch. So let's try the edit
image pro. So in this one we have to set
the image. It doesn't take it
automatically. So you just got to click
set image. And then I'll just prompt it.
Make the barrel look more damaged. And
there we go. I'll just click generate.
And you can see it is damaged. You know,
it already did the job much better than
the normal edit image tool. But here you
can see like some of the details are not
are not exactly right. Like this little
metal part, it was raised like there was
no gap between it. Here again, let's try
the normal edit image tool with our
statue. I'll prompt something like make
the statue have cracks and visual damage
on the clothing. And I'll just click
generate. And here, look, it got kind of
confused because it saw something that
resembled cracks, I guess, and it didn't
really do it. So, let's try the edit
image pro. I'll prompt the same thing.
Click generate. And there we have
something. Now, it's cracked, you know.
So, the edit image pro tool is much
stronger. Like, it it takes care of your
prompts much better if it's something
complex like something being broken, you
know. Now I'll do make it more damaged
and crumbling. Let's try that. And there
you have it. You know, that's pretty
cool. So you have like two stages of
destruction, right? But like I said, the
edit image pro tool, it's more expensive
than the normal one. The tool, as you
can see over there, it says this tool
costs 40 generations and edits a single
image. Right? And I'll try one more. I
I'll put cut in half just so we can see
how much more we can destroy. You see,
that's pretty cool. Like, it does a
really nice job, that's for sure. But it
does cost 40 generations.
So, how would I go about this if I want
to have more frames and yet destroy the
whole thing? So, that would be animate
with text. You would think animate with
text would only be used just for
animation, right? I mean, yes, but we
can do the following. We can animate it
being broken and destroy it. And then we
can just pick the frames that we like
and have a damaged state, another damage
state, and then maybe even an animation
of it crumbling down or exploding or
whatever. Right? So that's the goal with
this. So here we go to animate, animate
with text pro. And now we have to set
the reference image, right? So we have
this reference image and then we have
the action description which is
basically what you want the animation to
be. I'll prompt the base damages with
cracks and breaks into pieces. And I'll
click generate. And let's see here. We
have cracks. Boom. Boom. Boom. Oh, more
cracks. More damage. More damage. and
crumbled. And there we have 16 different
frames we can choose from. So you can
delete frames, you can keep any frame
you like, you can edit the frames, you
know, you don't have to keep them all.
You don't have to make it a super long
animation. But here, you can just, you
know, I'll delete one or two. I'll keep
the ones I like. You can delete the ones
that look too much alike. And here I'll
just erase a little bit of the crumbles
cuz I want these to be still like the
damaged vase and not the crumbling like
animation.
And here when it starts breaking into
pieces, that's where I want it to
animate. Right? So that's what I'm going
to do. I'm going to tag this just so I
know that's where the animation starts.
And for this, since we don't really have
much of the crumbling, right? I'll do
the following. We'll go out of the
animate with text tool and we'll try the
interpolate pro tool. So, we can give it
a start image and we can give it an
ending image. I'll prompt the same
thing. The vase damages with cracks and
breaks into pieces. And I'll just click
generate. And there you can see how it's
actually just falling apart into pieces,
which is perfect. I can of course delete
some frames, you know, cuz there's a lot
of things that are just like super super
detailed and sometimes in pixel art, you
want things to be snappy and quick, you
know. So, I'll just delete what I don't
want. I'll keep, of course, what I want.
As you can see, there's like three
frames that are the same basically. So,
yeah, I'll just clean it up. I'll see if
it looks good. And here you can see like
there's some floating pieces.
So I'm just going to move them around
like manually. We don't really have to
go back to prompting, you know, like
these are just some details that are
much more worth it to do manually than
trying to get the AI model to do it for
you. All right, so now let's move on to
a really important part which is color
palettes. So, we have this really cool
tool which is called reduce colors. So,
before I talk about the tool, what I'm
going to do is I'm going to make a small
palette with the colors that I have in
this vase. And then after I'm done with
that, I'm going to go to reduce colors.
I'm going to click use palette. I'm
going to enable process all frames. I'm
going to do it in the current layer. And
I'm going to hit quantize. And now what
that's going to do is it's gonna keep
all the sprites, all of the frames in
our single color palette. Now it looks
super clean. Look at that. Beautiful.
The last thing I'm going to do is I'm
going to just duplicate that last frame.
I'm going to remove all the dust and I'm
going to make that last frame just be
static like that, you know. And here you
go. We have our damaged base with all
the hits. Damage, damage, damage,
damage. animation. So, let's do the same
thing with our wooden barrel. We go to
animate, animate with text, set the
reference image, describe what you want
to happen.
So, the barrel gets damaged with cracks
and then breaks and turns into crumbles.
Oh, and yeah, I didn't mention this, but
you can choose a camera view and the
direction, but I'll just choose a camera
view here. I'll do low top down. But the
model is pretty smart, so it doesn't
really matter that much unless you're
doing something really specific, of
course. And let's see. There we have
damage. We have a damage barrel and it
breaking or crumbling. Yeah, that's
pretty cool. So, let's try reduce
colors.
I'll do specify colors this time. So,
that means you can just reduce from all
the colors that are in all of those
sprites. You can reduce it to a certain
amount and it'll keep like the main idea
with less details, right? So, I'll lower
it to something like nine. I'll do
current layer. And let's see. And here,
well, it did a pretty nice job. It kept
it clean. So, I'm just going to fix a
couple of the details because I think I
might have reduced too much in some some
spots. As you can see, it kind of gave a
little bit of the wood color to the
highlights. So, I'm just going to fix
that. And again, this is a reminder to
not fully rely on the AI model, but to
do and do some manual fixes yourself.
I'm just going to delete some of the
crumble here just so I can leave it for
later, right? For the more advanced
frames here, I'm just going to delete
this part cuz it didn't really make much
sense to me. And there, I I'll just
tagged the animation again. And here we
have a fully destructible barrel. And of
course, we don't really have to use all
the frames that we get cuz again, we get
16 frames and we're like, "Oh, that's
cool." But in all honesty, in a lot of
pixel art games, we use much less,
right? It's more of a matter of if
you're getting the message across with
as least frames as possible, right? So
here I'm just going to use three damage
frames, right? Boom, boom, boom. And
then it crumbles, right? Same thing with
the vase. Like here we have a lot of
damaged stakes, right? So we can reduce
that for sure, right? And here you see
it makes more sense cuz it's a vase to
have less hits, right? It it can also
depend on how how heavy your your asset
is, right? Or how heavy it intends to be
or how strong it it's supposed to be.
But yeah, let's move on to the last guy,
which is the statue, which is the bigger
sprite, right? With bigger sprites,
animate with text does less frames. So,
we were doing 64x 64 and 32x 32. Those
sizes, any size below 64x 64, it gives
you 16 frames output. But if we go to
128x 128, we end up with a limitation.
We get four frames per animation. So
that means we can only get four frames
and then we can extend the animation
again by setting the reference image to
our last frame, right? But yeah, let's
try our statue. I'm going to prompt
something like the statue gets damaged
and cracks up. And um no, yeah, that's
I'm going to leave it at that cuz we
only get four frames. So this one is
kind of high top down. And let's click
generate. And look, there we have a
pretty nice consistent amage statue.
Right. So now we can go ahead and select
our last frame as the reference image.
And now we can change the prompt to
something like the damaged statue starts
crumbling into pieces.
So I'll click generate and let's see.
There we have it. You see that's a
pretty nice crumbling animation. So
let's see if we hit it. Boom. Boom.
Boom. Then it crumbles. And yeah,
remember it doesn't really have to be
only crumbling. It can be explosions. It
can be all types of stuff. So, be
creative and let us know what you're
creating in our Discord channel or down
in the comments. I hope you like this
video. So, I hope you found it useful
and I'll see you in the next