Hello guys, welcome back to the Pixel
Lab channel. Today we're going to be
looking at VIP coding with Pixelab and
we're going to be making a small game
with Cloud Code and Go dot as their game
engine. It's worth mentioning that you
can of course use the Pixel Lab MCP with
any of the IDE such as VS Code, Cursor,
Windurf, even like Perplexity Desktop or
other MCP clients which you can just get
your code. So what can we do with the
Pixel app MCP? Exactly. Well, you can
see here the available tools which are
create character, animate character,
make top- down tile sets, make sides
scroller tile sets and isometric tiles.
Of course, we're also making new tools
and we're working on new additions to
the MCP, but that's what we have
available right now. You can also find
different information here and how it
can be helpful to your workflow. And of
course, we can see the installation
steps right here. So, you just click the
IDE you're using. And today, for
example, we're going to be using cloud
code. And here, you can just copy the
code, open your terminal, and run the
command above. For cursor, it would be
open the cursor settings and follow
these steps. But, as I said, we're going
to be using cloud code today. And I
really do recommend using cloud code
specifically if you're using go dot as
your game engine because the other tools
like cursor you can of course use cloud
and cursor but the usage gets kind of
limited and the other models like the
other LLM such as GPT or Gemini they do
kind of struggle with GDScript
and with the go dot engine in general
making scenes and stuff like that. They
do struggle with that. So that's just a
recommendation to use cloud code or
cloud in general for go dot. All right.
So the first thing I'm going to do is
I'm going to create characters. I'm
going to go to the characters creator
page and I was thinking on maybe making
a survival farmer game like a bro clone
but wouldn't like farmer theme. So
basically, you're a farmer. You have to
survive against waves of anthroamorphic
animals from the farm. So let's make a
farmer first. So I'm going to prompt a
male farmer wearing a blue overall. I'm
going to do 64x 64 and do high top down.
And I'm going to do realistic male. You
can also go to advanced options and do
shading and stuff like that. But of
course, we covered that in our prior
videos on the character creator page.
So, if you haven't watched that, make
sure to go ahead and watch it. So, I'm
going to click create. And the reason
why I'm making a character in the
character creators page and not right
away with the MCP tools is because I
want to see the character and see if
there's any tray pixels, if there's
anything I should fix before we import
it to our engine.
But you could, of course, start with the
MCP and just tell it to create a
character. Just keep in mind, you won't
be able to just edit it right away. You
would have to then go into either
Acebride or the website itself and edit
it. So that's why we're making it first
in the site. So here we have our farmer
with the blue overall. We can always of
course go to edit and pixelama just to
clean up whatever pixels we want and
that way when we animate it won't
propagate the mistakes we have in here.
Just a couple of cleanups just to make
sure everything looks good. And when
you're happy just click save character
creator and click refresh and it should
be all good. So now we're ready to
animate and go with a couple animations.
I'm going to do idle gonna generate in
the background so I can keep choosing
other animations.
I'm also going to do walking with six
frames. Generate in the background. I'm
also going to do running with six
frames. Also generate in the background.
And you can see how they're generating
already. We also want a punching
animation. So let's do a cross punch.
And I think we can end up with fallen
back death animation. Of course, you can
clean them up again with editing
pixelama or you can delete and redo the
animation, which I will probably do. I'm
going to ceue up the other directions.
As you can see, there's a maximum of 10
background jobs. So, I'll keep that in
mind. Got to be a little patient. You
can see I can just edit this walking
animation on whatever frame I don't
like. And then we can just hit refresh.
And there you have it. You can see how
I'm just deleting a couple of the
animations and just redoing them.
All right. So now that I'm happy with
that player, I'm just going to call it
farmer main character just so I can find
it easier after. And now I'm going to do
the same process for our first enemy.
It's going to be it's going to be an
anthropomorphic
chicken. And it's going to be high top
down realistic male. I'm going to do the
same shading. So flat shading. And I'm
going to create the character. And
basically the same process that we did
for our player.
For this one, I'm going to do a scary
walk since they're like enemies, maybe
like zombie like animals. Who knows?
All right. So now that we're happy with
their animations, we can call this
chicken enemy and we can start making
our game. So before we do that, remember
to set up your pixel lab mcp.
So for cloud code, we would go to
terminal, right? Like it says here, open
your terminal, run the command above. So
you would copy this and it would say
your authorization code here. So I'm
going to do that. And as you can see, it
says my MCP server is already
configurated because I already installed
it. But it would just say that it's
installing and it should be all set up
with just that one command. So the first
thing I'm going to do is open Go dot and
create a new project which I'm going to
call Farm Animals Survival Arena. I'm
going to use a compatibility renderer
and I'm going to put it on my desktop
just so I can locate it easier. And
boom, we got our project. So cool. Now
that we have our project created, we can
open up our terminal and we can locate
our folder path. So thing you can do is
either go here to the folder, locate
your folder, rightclick and go to
services and do new terminal add folder
which is the easy way or if you don't
want to do that you can just go to get
info copy here where it says where copy
that which is the path and here in the
terminal just type in cd which is change
directory paste to path and write the
folder name, which would be farm animals
survival arena. And there we have it.
Now we're in our folder and we can start
using Claude. So to start using Claude,
we just have to type in Claude and then
it will ask you to trust the files in
the folder. We say yes. And now we're
all set up. We can start making our
game. So the first thing I'm going to
prompt Claude is that we're in God 4.4.
That's the version I'm using, but you
can use any other version.
And we're making a small game inspired
by potato where the main player is a
farmer survivor. We have to survive
against waves of anthropomorphic
farm animals. I want you to read the
Pixel Lab MCP documentation and write a
plan. ND where you plan out the game
structure phases of development and
references to the Pixel Lab tools. I'm
going to copy and paste the link of the
documentation which we'll have down in
the description. And I'm also going to
tell it to only write the LAN.md
and make sure to always keep it updated
when we make new changes. And boom.
Let's see. So here you can see it asks
me for permission and you will see it
asks us for permission to do any new
action. All right. So now that it made
the plan, let's read it real quick
before we accept everything. Here it
gave us the game concept, the core game
loop, the development phases. It says
create character, but it will tell you
we already made a character, but we can
make new characters after with the MCP
just so you can see how that works as
well. And there we have the tool
references, which is always good to have
it. So, I'm going to say yes and allow
all edits during the session. Now, I'm
going to tell it that I already made two
characters. So, I want you to download
them using the Pixel Lab MTP. They're
called chicken enemy and farmer main
character. Download them and import them
to the projects. And for context, we're
using 64x 64 realistic style characters.
So, import them and update the plan. As
you can see, it will look up the
characters.
Of course, you got to see yes and don't
ask again. Same thing for the downloads.
And like I said, it asks you to give
permission for every new action. So, if
you guys want to skip that and want to
avoid having to say yes every single
time, there is a command that we can run
right before we start using Claude. When
we open up a terminal, which I'll show
you in just a second after it's done
importing the characters. All right. So,
now it said it downloaded and imported
the characters. So, let's go to go out
and see. Here we have the assets, we
have our chicken, we have our player,
and we have all the animations. So, you
can just tell it to look up your
character, and it will fetch it and
download it and import it with just one
prompt. And you don't even have to give
it the IDs. You can just tell it the
names, and it'll work. So now for that
command that I mentioned for being able
to skip the yes every time, I'm going to
exit this real quick and I'm going to
open up the terminal one more time. And
now instead of just typing in claude,
we're going to do claude and then dash
dangerously dash skip dash permissions.
And that way it will skip every question
you get asked if you want to allow
something to happen. Now keep in mind
this is at your own risk. So be careful
using it. But now that we're back here,
I can either resume our conversation,
which I will do, or I could just start
over. But I'm just going to resume this
conversation. And now I'm going to tell
it to actually start making the game,
right? I'm going to tell it to make the
game scene with the characters and make
use of all the animations with their
game play. All right. So, right now, it
told me to run a script to set up the
animations,
but I really wanted to do it by itself.
So, I'm just going to tell it to make
the animation work automatically. We
don't want to set up anything manually.
All right. Right. So, it made a couple
of new text files, which I'll check just
to see what's up with that. But it seems
like it's made everything. So, let's
see. Let's reload this. And let's hit
play. Let's see if anything works.
Oh, well, we got the chickens.
We don't have our player. So, let's tell
it that. Meanwhile, I want to check
those text files while it's fixing the
bugs. So the read me is basically
another overview of the game, the setup.
It's basically giving the structure, I
guess, and again instruction on how to
play the game. And of course, we have
our plan. All right, cool. So it seems
like it fixed it. Let's see. Let's hit
play. Don't worry about these errors.
Nope, still no player, but I can move,
which is good. So it seems like the
character is still not visible. So, as
you can see, it's asking me to run it
and tell it what I see in the console.
But we can actually just give it our
go.path. So, if you find your go app,
wherever it's located, I can just get
the info, tell it where it is. I'm going
to tell it this is the path for my
go.app.
You run it and test it. And now it can
test it without us having to go in and
copy and paste the errors or whatever.
Oh, so I can't see anything. Wow, that's
such a weird bug. All right, let's test
it now. Oh, there it is. Nice. Oh, cool.
Yeah. All right, so now I'm just going
to tell it to fix the jittery camera.
Much better. All right, so now I want it
to actually make the player attack. All
right, let's test it one more time. Oh
no. Oh well, that's a little glitchy.
So, let's fix that. Context is low. So,
I'm just going to run compact and finish
fixing the bugs. I'm just going to tell
it to rewrite the combat logic so we can
move on. And there we go. Finally have
it working. Okay, I just need the
chickens to attack us a little bit more,
but we can attack them, which is good.
I'm just going to tell it to fix the
animations.
So, and just one small thing, I'm going
to tell to make it WSAD cuz it only put
the arrow keys. Hey, that all works. I'm
just going to tell it to bring back the
normal waves. And we can make new
enemies now. And maybe a to hats. Cool.
So, now I trust it. Fix it. So now let's
tell it to create anthropomorphic
cow character heroic style 64x
64 eight directions and when finished
animates it with carry walk animation.
We'll ask that just for now and then
we'll ask for the other animations. I'm
doing this just to show you how you can
create the character using DMCP and also
why we use the create character page
instead of DMCP because we'll probably
have some weird pixels. Hopefully not,
but usually we do require at least a
little bit of manual cleanup. But if you
just need prototyping characters, then
you could definitely just use the MCP
and not leave your IDE. All right. So,
the character is done and it's still
finishing the scary walk animation. So,
I'll just tell it to queue up an idle
animation as well and a throw animation
cuz I want it to be different. And also,
you should know in general cla or the
other idees, they do usually put a timer
just to automatically check. In this
case, it didn't, but just be aware that
it usually does that. It usually checks
automatically if it's done or not, but
in this case, I'm just going to ask it
to check. And also keep in mind that the
character you ask it to make, it will be
in your character's creator page. So
here you can see our cow and the
animations is made already. But we'll go
back here. Oh well, it queued up an
attack animation, which I didn't really
want. But I guess we can use it when the
player is close to that enemy. it just
punches you and when it's far from it,
it uses the throw animation. But again,
I needed to queue up throw animation
which it missed. All right, so it seems
like cloud code got a little confused
while trying to finish all the
rotations. And well, this can happen
sometimes if you ask for too many
animations at once. So if it fails on a
specific direction, you can either tell
the AI to reue the missing directions or
you can do it manually like I am right
now.
And here we can see the reason why we
don't usually want to do finalized
characters with only the MCP cuz here
for example we have a jab attack with I
don't know a spell. It's something we
could probably just recreate or edit
manually. And it's the same with the
rotation. It has a shirt in the back and
it doesn't have a shirt in the front,
which is things we usually can fix when
we create the character here or after we
get the character. It all depends on
your workflow and on your main goal. All
right, now that we have all our
animations, now we can tell it download
the character with its animations,
import it, and create a cow enemy. It
should be able to throw a projectile
when far and punch when the player is
close. So to use the icon. SVG in the
project as a placeholder for the
projectile. And then I'll give it a
sprite. All right, let's see if the cow
is in the game. Well, I don't see no
cow. I'm going to tell it to add the cow
to the waves cuz I guess it just made
the cow and it didn't add it, which is
fair. I want to see it. All right, let's
see. Oh, wow. It works. You got the cow.
It has a really long range. Look at
that. It has a super long range, but it
works, which is nice. Nice hard. I'm
going to tell it to range rows and less
cows more chicken. Let's go our harder.
There we go. Nice. All right. So, now
I'm going to compact this conversation
because we're running out of context and
I think it's time to make a tile set.
All right. So, now I'm going to tell it
to use the Pixel Lab MCP and make a top
down 32x 32 grass and dirt tile sets.
I'm going to tell it to check and
download it and import it to the
project. All right. So, it should be in
our project now. See? Yep, there it is.
Now, let's tell it to use the tile set
and make a map with it. As you can see,
it read the documentation. It basically
knows how to use the tile sets we made
with Pixel app. All right. So, let's
test it. We don't have a tile set. I'm
just going to touch fix it and let's
see. All right. So, you got kind of
confused and it made a map scene and it
didn't make the map inside of our game
scene. So, I think now it's going to fix
it and we should be good. So, make sure
to be as specific as you can with each
prompt because if not, we'll just end up
here. All right, we're almost there.
Now, we have a map and we just need to
get rid of that green box from the
player. Oh, we lost. All right. So, now
that we have our map, we have a couple
of enemies, we have our attacks, our
death animation, I think we're just
missing a projectile, and maybe some
droppable items, and we should be good
to go. All right, so for the projectile,
I think I'm going to use the API instead
of going to Ace Pride or Pixelama. So to
use the API, we need to go to the
Pixelab website. And we need to go to
the API tab. And here you'll see your
API key, your subscription, and the
generations you have available, which
are going to be used before the credits.
And then you have documentation and the
AI documentation which if you click
you'll see we copied the actual docs
which we can just give to the AI like
claude or chat GPT or cursor or whatever
and it'll read it and be able to use the
API. Of course, you have to give it your
API key and then it'll use it. So that's
what I'm going to do. I'm going to go to
the terminal. I'm going to copy and I'm
going to paste the link and I'm going to
say read the docs. We're going to create
jigs with the API. All right. So now I'm
going to give it my API key and I'm
going to say use my API key and I'm
going to say create a bucket of milk top
down 32 by 32. I'm going to be a little
bit more specific. And as you can see,
if you go to the docs, you can see the
tools that are available. So, for
example, you have generate image with
Pix Flux or Bit Forge. I'm going to say
use it for generate image.
All right. So, we should have a new
asset now. There we have it. We didn't
really ask to remove the background. So,
I'm going to do one more and tell it to
remove the background. I'm going to tell
it to make one more bucket of milk and
use the remove background setting. All
right, there we go. Now, we have the
transparent bucket of milk and we can
tell it to use that as a projectile for
the cow. And let's see. There we have
it. Cool. So now I think we should just
have some droppable items and we should
be all set. So I'm going to tell it to
make a wheat item which the enemy will
drop. It will give me health and make
sure it's transparent. All right. Now
here we can see our wheat image. Pretty
nice. And now we can test it.
Yep, there it is. It heals us and we can
keep playing. So, I think we can leave
it here for today. I hope you found this
useful and I hope you found some
potential with the Pixel Lab MCP and the
API, which I think are pretty cool and
can make your workflow really nice. So,
make sure to check it out and let us
know what projects you're working on. If
you enjoyed this video, please make sure
to leave a like, comment, and subscribe.
Thanks for watching and I'll catch you
in the next video.