All right, we just released a brand new
animation tool in Pixel Lab. As you guys
know, we already have tools like
animation with skeleton, animation to
animation, and animate with text pro,
but this one is a bit different. This is
animate with text v3. In the UI, you'll
actually see it as animate with text
new, but this is basically the next
generation of our text to animation
system. It lets you generate animations
using an image reference and a text
prompt.
And the best part is that it's actually
cheaper than the pro tool, so it's much
easier to experiment with different
ideas. Let me show you a few examples.
For the first example, I'm going to use
this cute mage character. First, we're
going to go to the animate category, and
we're going to look for animate with
text new. The animation I want is for
her to take off her hat and hold it in
her hands. We first have to set our
reference image, which would be the
character. And then as you can see, we
can choose the amount of frames that we
want for the animation. The limit
changes depending on the size of your
sprite. So the bigger the sprite, the
less the frames, but this model gives us
nice room to animate even big sizes. And
then we got our action description. So
the prompt I'm going to use is the cute
mage takes her hat off and holds it in
her hand.
And there we go. You can see the
animation it generated. Like with a lot
of generations, you might want to clean
up a few frames, but once that's done,
we can actually extend the animation.
So now I'm going to take the last frame
as a reference image and generate the
next part of the sequence. This time the
prompt is, "The cute mage does a magic
spell that transforms the hat in her
hand into a fireball.
And there it is. Now she's actually
casting a spell and transforming the hat
into a fireball. But we can extend it
one more time. Again, I'm going to take
the last frame as a reference image. And
the prompt is the cute mage does a fire
spell.
And look at that. Now we have a full
animation sequence where she takes off
her hat, turns it into a fireball, and
then casts a spell with it. And of
course, I'm going to go ahead and clean
it up again before we move on.
Next, I'm going to use this Egyptian cat
goddess that I made. For this example,
I'm using a 256x 256 canvas, which is
another really cool thing about this
tool. Even at 256x 256, we can generate
eight animation frames, which we didn't
have before. Even with the pro tools,
for this example, I want to show you
guys a little tip. Instead of writing
the animation prompt myself, I'm going
to go to Gemini, send it the image of my
character, and ask it to give me a short
paragraph describing an attack
animation. The reason I do this is
because if you just write something
simple like attack, the model will try
something, but it might not be exactly
what you imagined. When you give it a
more descriptive prompt, you usually get
better results. So, I'm going to take
the paragraph Gemini gave me, paste it
in here, and generate the animation.
Look at that. Pretty nice, right?
Next, I want to show you that you can
really use any LLM to help you generate
animation prompts. This time, I'm going
to ask Claude to generate a small
paragraph describing a tree swaying in
the wind.
Claude gave me a prompt that mentions
things like 60 to 90 frames at 12 frames
per second, which obviously doesn't
apply here. So, I'm just going to take
the parts that describe the motion and
paste that in.
And there we go. We get a really nice
animation of the tree swaying with the
wind. Before we finish, let's go back to
the mage. Let's add a hit reaction
animation and a fire spell forward. So,
first let's go with the hit reaction.
I'm going to prompt the mage gets hit
and reacts with a dramatic emote.
Well, she doesn't seem to be really
hurt, but it's still a reaction
animation and an emote. Let's try asking
chat GPT to help us with the prompt. I'm
going to ask it again for a small
paragraph describing a hit animation.
And I'm just going to copy and paste it
and click generate.
And as you can see, that goes much
better with what we asked it to do. Now,
let's go back to Chat GBT and ask it to
give us a short paragraph for an
animation of a fire spell for our cute
mage. I'm going to copy it and I'm going
to paste it. And for this animation, I'm
going to extend the canvas. So, I'm
going to click the letter C on my
keyboard. Or you can just go to sprite
and change canvas size. And I'm going to
do 128x 128. This is so we can have more
space for the animation to happen if we
want the spell or whatever else in the
extra space. I'm going to try 16 frames
this time.
Wow, we got a beautiful animation. I
guess it's just missing more frames. So,
why don't we try extending it a bit? I'm
going to get rid of that last frame and
I'm going to use this frame as our new
reference. And using the same prompt,
I'm just going to click generate with
new frame as the output.
Well, that extended it nicely, but that
wasn't exactly what I wanted. So, I'm
going to go back to chatpt. I'm gonna
tell it to prompt for the fire attack to
be done instantly from our latest frame.
So, let's see how that works out.
And there we go. That's what I'm talking
about. Of course, you can extend it more
and make it a longer animation, or you
can shorten it and just use the frames
that you like. That's basically the new
workflow with our new animate with text
tool. So, I hope you liked it. Let us
know what you're working on down in the
comments. Make sure to like and
subscribe, and I'll see you in the next
video.