

=== VIDEO: Introducing Object Creator： Make Pixel Art Objects, Packs, States & Animations ===
We just released a new object creator page on our website. Here's how it works. Prompt any object you want or prompt a pack of assets and get a full group of objects that fit your game. Choose the size of your objects with the slider. You can choose style references from your object creator gallery if you've made projects before with the map editor, or you can drag your own assets as style images and just hit generate. Once the assets are generated, you can select which objects you want to keep, tag, delete. Next, if you're not using a style reference, you can choose the perspective of the objects. So, either top down or sidescroller. And you can also describe each item you want in this drop- down list. If you leave it empty, it'll make what you asked in your prompt. Here's an example for sidescroller as well. Another thing you can do is create an object with eight directions. So, a fully rotated object. Let's try that with this king throne. Of course, you can choose the camera view and hit generate and check it out. Pretty cool. Here are the last two things I want to show you. When you go inside of an object page, you can create new states of that object. If you hit create state, you can edit that object and get another variation. Basically, for example, I'll prompt dirty. And here you can see the dirty faucet. The last thing is animations. Here you can click add your first animation. Here you have two options. You can use the animation pro model or the animation V3 model. They perform differently and they cost different generation amounts so you can choose which tool you want to use. You can also enhance your prompt so the model has a stronger output. That's the object creator. Thank you for watching. Make sure to let us know how it goes with your usage of it and share your creations on the Discord.

=== VIDEO: Tutorial： How to create maps with PixelLab ===
hi today I will be showing one way of using the map Tile tool so we will start off by creating some graphs you can uh create anything really but the idea is to create some uh tiles that we can then generate more tiles from so that the model can use the other tiles as uh inspiration so for this first generation I want a quite low in it image strength when it's just for example grass or road or Beach you don't really need any uh in it image but I think it sometimes helps so I'm going to use it it's important you get your starting um tiles pretty good so that the model will continue doing good stuff that's why I highly recommend if you have already have some uh tiles that you like that you use them as inspiration so you get better results later so now we have created some grass Let's uh create some sand or Beach and then we can um create a transition from grass uh to uh to the beach so I want to select the area in between so we get a nice transition and all of the sound so let's say grass to to start off once we get something that we like we can keep it by removing the in pinning from it and then we can remove what it is like fill it back in and then we generate on top of this so here we could say um be sand with some rocks maybe and if it someone to do what you want it to do we can add in some uh some help some init image help and then uh generate it might be interesting to see U like beach to water so what we could do might be more cooler to do something like uh this to this and let's make water up here so you can get some nice Corners something I want to note is that you can use customize Uh custom size which allows you to uh generate on 160 Time by 160 the issue with that is the model is better uh when you're doing it on a smaller small smaller size so in this case I'm thinking I kind of want to uh allow the model to see the grass to uh help it understand like the style that I'm using so this might actually be a Cas so I'm going to allow to be a bit larger just so I can let it the models see um see everything let's try that so let's uh take this whole uh area let's use imp painting and let's we want some nice sand to water transition here can do all of it let's let's have a pretty decent image string and we do um and also something that's good to note is that model is actually um best at editing what's in the middle of the image so let's see what happens um quite nice we can retry again see if it comes up with something even cooler okay this isn't perfect but we kind of see uh what looks like in the future might be a good road so we're going to do here is just remove what we don't want and then what we can do is go back into the in painting here then we're going to show the model uh the the good road so the model kind of understands oh okay this is what it should look like then that will help uh a lot then we can uh go in here and just help the model out a little bit more by filling that stuff in and then we uh generate all right so once this is done in this case I'll probably go in here maybe do something like that and then let's say we are kind of happy with this part can do something like that then just let's just fix this part so I don't really not loving the transition so let's do no in Dage IM in this case and then we to go in here and then we make the transition all right nice and let's say now we want the uh road to a beach so in this case I'm just going to custom size I think it will work pretty well going to go in [Music] remove I probably I don't want this I want to I'm going to want to in paint paint transition in between this stuff going to leave the road alone I want to show as much as possible of the the road just to give it an idea what it should look like then here in between I'm just going to uh fill it in might be good to uh take a darker color just so there there a bigger difference between the beach and the road all right then it's the H to Road I'm going to use a init image and generate all right sometimes you don't get EX exactly what you were hoping for let's just do that for showcase let's go back like this then we can uh help the model out by removing some of the in painting we can grab this area here so we want to make it look like this all right let's extend this area bit let's say let's say we just want more grass now this is this is when the um large size model is the best it can see some grass so it will easily yes duplicate it all right nice and then uh we could um let's say add a tree here so I'm just gonna give the model uh some help then go back to 64 by 64 and say tree and then increased init image strength a bit be large tree has to be extra clear oh yeah we have to uh in paint the tree as well a bit higher in it's okay nice then we can remove this and let's just fix the top of the top of the tree something like that nice let's say we want a um a place to sit right here what you can do is just similar it through the tree we just in paint and then we can uh say uh a bench and we will get a bench b a mountain here what we can do is similarly to before just Draw Something In Like This that's the mountain an init image let's say 200 in painting make sure you cover the transition nice all we can do then is just extend that to the rest like that and make then we have to make sure we don't remove the in in pinning here so the model can copy this and then we can draw black on this area instead nice and then let's say we want a a uh Cave opening here we just go back in I recommend not using custom size and make it 64 64 and here we can uh do the opening and something dark then we go in let say um cave entrance let have a pretty low init image strength cuz the color is so dark so it should be fine nice all right nice and we could then continue this let's say behind here um maybe we want a uh a dungeon or something nice we can then uh remove this you can kind of imagine how you can extend this mountain up a bit and uh create a uh dungeon inside maybe we can do something like this just want to in paint the corner here dungeon floor nice so maybe eest in this position is just do something like that and then what you could do if you have a dungeon you know and you want a uh treasure I recomend just you can go either you can make one in one of the other models you just go in here and make a treasure chest like this you want to in paint where you want your treasure uh and then let's say let's add a color just to show the model like oh I want my treasure to be in this area yes then let's increase it a bit all right all right nice so yeah you can kind of imagine what you can do uh and how you can create stuff and as long as you see endit images you can control how the walls form or how the lakes are shaped and stuff like that uh at the moment the map Tile tool is best used for 16 by 16 but you can do pretty much most of most stuff with it you can add houses uh different uh like plants water stuff dungeon stuff and yeah hope this is helpful and uh you can create some awesome stuff

=== VIDEO: Tutorial： How to create tilesets using AI ===
hi in this video I will show you how you can create tile sets in pixel app a good way of creating the starting point for a high top down tile set is to use the create M to XL image tool here I'm generating grass surrounding dirt so the reason why I'm doing it this way is that if you're using the create map tool it isn't like always amazing at creating the first image so what I do is I use another model to create a good starting point and then I will using Create map to expand and create all the parts you expect in a tile set so here you can use shift s to more easily use the list selection tool and grabbing and grab blocks and move them around then I will use uh create map to in paint in between with create map it automatically in paints Alpha zero so you don't need to inpaint by hand in between the uh like in the cross because it does it for you you can see that in the UI all right we have our first part of the tile set now we need to create the inverse so I will be doing that in steps to make it as easy as possible for the model I will Fast Forward a bit so you don't need to watch me do this all right so now we have a good init image and let's change the text prompt to grasp between dirt instead and we will now in paint the parts we want the model to edit and that would be like in between and I'm going to use uh use selection tool to select paint painting area so that way we can only edit this part of the image and we're also using the current image as Target pallet that's not really necessary but it can be good so there's no random colors and then let's use init image to tell the model there's there should be grass in between the uh yeah the dirt all right so now we are a third of the way uh to the inverse of the top left image so now the plan is to create like the lower part of the image or like the ti set so now I'm going to copy paste over things and this is to make it as easy as possible for the model to do the correct thing then we can inpaint the parts that the model should edit which in this case would be the corners and to help the model out a bit more we will update the image a bit by in like making a better init image which we will take like the colors and just yeah draw a slightly a bit like what it should look like it doesn't need to be perfect or anything but it will help the model out a lot by kind of knowing what colors should beware and then the model will do the rest for us the init image strength that you want uh it depends a bit on like how good your init image is uh but you can try 200 first 300 400 maybe even 500 and just see if you want it to look more like your init image or less but now it's time to uh do the opposite side so the top side and we're going to do the same thing we're going to copy paste what looks good place it in the right position then we're going to in paint and then create like the init image and then just click generate just like before so I will speed up till we click generate but it's also good to know like you can Al you can edit other places as well if you like so here I kind of want to edit the green part as well the like transition so I'm just going to draw a bit there but it's good to know like the more the model is allowed to see the more likely it will perform better and be able to copy the style of the image so that's something to take into consideration and yeah nice and if you don't like result you can always you know try again edit in it image editing the guidance strength and stuff like that but now I'm just going to copy paste over so we get the uh inverse and I will speed up and you can see what how you can do that now comes the hardest part when you want to create like a transition between like Corners so what we will do is we will create a init image that is as good as possible and then we will fix it up with in painting uh but this is a lot of manual work and not as much like just the model doing everything for us you can try using the model more but in this case we got pretty good um parts so we can just use what we already have and uh yeah I will speed up and you can see what it could look like but as you can see it's basically just me copy pasting things that I like and just pasting it over and then if there are any issues you can use uh in painting and in it image to like fix it and then we can just repeat this until we are happy with the results and if you're not super happy you can always just change some settings or how you imp pinning things to give the model more or less information uh so here in this case I kind of didn't like how it did the crossover part or what I should call it so now I'm just in pinning less of that so the model can see more like it is supposed to be like a a nice slope instead of just like a hard Edge so yeah that's how you create tile sets in uh pixel app for the last part I'm just going to reposition everything and then invert this one so how I do this I'm using selection and just putting a minus in front of the value and there we go yeah I hope you you find this useful and you're able to create tile sets now all right now I'll show you how you can create tile sets but for side scrollers instead so we will start off by creating like a platform which is very commonly seen in video games so the blue is for like a sky the green is for grass and the brown is for yeah dirt or rock or something like that then we go into the create map tool we will in paint use in it image and then as a description it will be important to take grass on top of dirt platform with a blue sky in the background which kind of tells the model uh what it's yeah was what it's meant to be you know and here I'm just going to remove the uh some of the inating on the on the sides just so the model can see that there's like a blue sky so it has some understanding that it's a flying platform so yeah there we go a nice uh start but there are some pieces missing so first off we want to create the uh like in between pieces so what I'm going to do is I'm going to shift s then move up the top of the platform and then we will just uh in paint in between and then uh click generate and we don't need a init image here because the model will be able to see what's above and below and be able to guess what should be in between now there are some other pieces that are commonly uh seen in tile sets which is like there's an empty space in the Rock so that's what we will do now and I want to make sure the model understands there's uh sky in the background and then we will inpaint the uh the corners yeah make make sure you're in the right layer and it's visible otherwise you can't uh draw in it then we just in paint Each corner it's not you don't have to be like super careful of how you're in pinning it's good that the model can see um the blue sky behind it uh so it understands that it should be corners and then we will use uh use selection tool and you can see in the UI uh what will what the model will see and what's in painted and boom there we have it all right let's create the other parts of uh tile Set uh which is like where the uh the dirt or rocks are like like pillars on either sides and then we will just in paint the transition and then the model will fix it for us because the model has uh so much it can see of like the style and how everything looks we we should probably change the description but it's fine because there's just so much information that it will be able to understand uh what we are looking for uh automatically all right it's time to uh do the last thing that is sometimes seen in tile sets and that is like slanted ground so we will go from a bottom level to a top level so first we want to create like a good uh init image or like uh something for the model to work from and remember to in paint in between and then draw like a sketch uh for the model to use uh so it understands what should be where it doesn't need to be perfect but the better you make it the easier time the model will have and then let's change the description to um grass hill instead you could also ask for like slanted or something like that then just select the area and use init image init image strength could be like 300 350 400 450 depends a bit on like what you're doing so it's good to like experiment and see what works better and here I need to change uh to uh custom size because my image isn't 64x 64 but 80 by 64 and then yeah once you're happy click generate and you will get something and if you don't like it here I will increase the intimate strength because I want it to U be more like perfectly slanted and you see it's it's better but here I'm thinking I could use this as my init image so I'm just going to use this uh the generated image as my init image and like iter iteratively improve the uh quality and yeah this is how you can create a tile set for side scrollers I hope you uh found this useful and helpful and I will see you in the next video

=== VIDEO: Creating pixel art characters with rotation and animations in one click ===
hi I would like to show you our latest tool create character onot it allows you to both generate a character with rotations animations from scratch but also generate rotations and animations for your existing characters if you want to generate a character from sketch you can leave the south east and north image empty if you want to generate based on your existing characters set your character to the corresponding image uh currently there are two animations a walking animation and a attacking animation in the future I will be adding more currently I'm thinking maybe a spellcasting animation and some special effects like a fireball and also running animation but of course join the Discord and uh uh give suggestions maybe some like mining animations could be fun uh other things I will be uh looking to implement after a bit of testing is 128 by 128 image size support and also all eight uh directions like Southeast Northeast and Etc something that is good to knowe is that when you're generating quadrupedal at the moment uh sometimes the start image is a bit yeah it doesn't perfectly follow follow that the direction so you can just uh click try again until it's like Facing East uh for the first image and then just double check that the next image is facing south and the last one is facing north if it doesn't work just click try again and hopefully after like two tries it will uh do it correctly but yeah don't forget there's also the animate with text and animate with skeleton which you can use to create your own things as well uh to create the yeah your own animations and your own touch you can also use animate with skeleton to edit the generations you see here so if you think like the arm should move a bit more forward you can estimate skeleton move it a bit and then just generate a improved version on your own [Music] [Music] no a [Music] [Music] [Music] all right let's go through how to use your character as a reference so set the corresponding image for the that direction and you can check the UI to make sure that it's correct and once you're happy just double check the camera view and you can click generate and off you go [Music] [Music] n [Music] n [Music] [Music] uh yeah thank thank you for watching I hope you have fun trying out the Tool uh if you have any suggestions or like improvements or things you would like to see feel free to leave a comment here in the YouTube channel or joining the Discord and uh give suggestions in the feedback uh Channel and yeah I will see you in the next video

=== VIDEO: Tutorial： Creating a pixel art isometric tiles and map with PixelLab ===
Hi guys, welcome to today's tutorial. In this video, we're going to cover how to use create isometric tile. Up top, we have tile shape. You can use the dropown to select the type of tile you'd like. There are a couple of options, thick, thin, block, and reference. There's also none. when you select them, the top area here uh changes. [Music] For this tutorial, we'll be using reference shape, and you can set and clear the reference. What the reference image does is tell the model what shape the tile should be and also some information on u shading and stuff like that. And underneath we have the description. This is where you tell the model what the tile should look like. It doesn't need to be a simple description. You can add more detail if you like. And just make sure it's uh something that you want your tile to look like and get creative. Then we have outline, shading, and details. You can select the options you want. Feel free to try them out and figure out which settings works best for your project. Tile size, there is 32x 32, 16x 16 and other. So depending on your canvas size, select the one that fits you best. Then we have init image, which helps define shape and appearance. If you have it higher, it will look more like your init image. And if it's lower, uh, it will look less like it. And you can play around and see what works best in your case. Just make sure it looks uh more like your end result cuz that's what it will uh push the model towards. Then in advanced options we have guidance weight which will push the model to make the generated image look more or less like your text description. It also impacts outline shading and details and like how uh much color there is. And down here we have load previous settings where you can find your previous seeds for old generations. And yeah, that's uh pretty much it. So let's go ahead and generate our first isometric tile. I'm just going to put back the default settings and click generate. And here we have it, our first tile. I'm just going to make some quick fixes to it. And here I'm just reducing the number of colors in the uh image. [Music] Same way as before. I'm just creating a water on top of dirt. Just going to fix it up a bit. Then we will start creating the map. [Music] So when creating a uh tile map with isometric tiles, you want to stack them together like this. Then you can copy paste to make it faster once you have some tiles already in place. For those of you who are making a video game, this is usually done programmatically. But since this is just a quick tutorial, I'm just doing it by hand instead. [Music] And now to make it a bit prettier, let's uh create some trees and stuff to have in our map. So in this case I'm using the pixlux model to generate the tree but you can also use extend map on the map that you have like I did in the previous tutorials. [Music] If you have any questions, Feel free to leave a comment or join the Discord channel and ask us there. We usually respond within minutes, maybe an hour or so, so it's a lot more efficient than YouTube comments. Thank you for watching and I will see you next time.

=== VIDEO: How to Create Destructible Environments in Seconds ===
In game devs, destruction is a luxury. Most indie devs just delete the object and play a sound effect. But today, we're going to fix that. I'm going to show you two ways to break your art in Pixel Lab. The obvious way and the smart way. So, here we are in a sprite and we have a vase. Pretty nice vase. And the first thing you would think to destroy it like or to damage it would be to go to edit image, right? And we got a couple options. We got the normal edit image and the pro version. The pro version is more expensive. It uses 40 generations per edit and the normal one uses one generation per edit of course. So let's try the normal one. So here we have the instruction which is basically you tell the model what you want to happen to the image. Here I'm just going to prompt something like make the vase look damaged with cracks. Then we have the guidance weight which is how much you want the model to basically listen to your prompt. And then we have the target palette which for this example I will use current image because we already have a small palette of the vase, right? But you can use a color palette or you can use none and just have the AI do its thing. And then we have the output method which of course you can put it in a new frame, new layer, etc. Here we have other options like use selection tool to select painting area. So that would be if the image is too big like there if your resolution is too big, you can just select an area with the limitations of the size that the model can handle. And then we of course have the removed background which we'll use since we don't have a background. And there you go. We got a damaged base, right? It's pretty nice. And then you can basically just go back and I don't know do it again like generate it again just to have another another frame of the damaged face. But then you're not getting all the consistency of it getting damaged, right? You're just getting randomly damaged bases with different cracks, different damage. And here I'm going to prompt it more cracked and pieces. Right. And there we can already see a small limitation. It won't give you exactly what you asked for, right? It'll do its best to do like I asked it I asked for it to be in pieces, but it didn't really break it apart, right? It just kept giving it more cracks and whatnot. So now let's switch to this wooden barrel, right? Let's go back to the edit image tool, the normal one, not the pro one. And now I'm just going to prompt something like make the barrel make the barrel be open. Right? And that as you can see it does the job. It literally does it like it opened it up. It made made a hole in it. Like we can see everything. But then if you ask for more complex things like make the barrel be damaged, visual damage, cracks and whatnot. And we try that. And now you see it just added a bit of damage. It didn't really do exactly what we really wanted, right? And then I can even add more prompting like in pieces and you'll see it doesn't do it like it's it's just hard. Look, it just it just made another barrel basically. So the edit tool, the edit image tool is recommended for some stuff, but when it starts getting hard for it, you know, you got to switch. So let's try the edit image pro. So in this one we have to set the image. It doesn't take it automatically. So you just got to click set image. And then I'll just prompt it. Make the barrel look more damaged. And there we go. I'll just click generate. And you can see it is damaged. You know, it already did the job much better than the normal edit image tool. But here you can see like some of the details are not are not exactly right. Like this little metal part, it was raised like there was no gap between it. Here again, let's try the normal edit image tool with our statue. I'll prompt something like make the statue have cracks and visual damage on the clothing. And I'll just click generate. And here, look, it got kind of confused because it saw something that resembled cracks, I guess, and it didn't really do it. So, let's try the edit image pro. I'll prompt the same thing. Click generate. And there we have something. Now, it's cracked, you know. So, the edit image pro tool is much stronger. Like, it it takes care of your prompts much better if it's something complex like something being broken, you know. Now I'll do make it more damaged and crumbling. Let's try that. And there you have it. You know, that's pretty cool. So you have like two stages of destruction, right? But like I said, the edit image pro tool, it's more expensive than the normal one. The tool, as you can see over there, it says this tool costs 40 generations and edits a single image. Right? And I'll try one more. I I'll put cut in half just so we can see how much more we can destroy. You see, that's pretty cool. Like, it does a really nice job, that's for sure. But it does cost 40 generations. So, how would I go about this if I want to have more frames and yet destroy the whole thing? So, that would be animate with text. You would think animate with text would only be used just for animation, right? I mean, yes, but we can do the following. We can animate it being broken and destroy it. And then we can just pick the frames that we like and have a damaged state, another damage state, and then maybe even an animation of it crumbling down or exploding or whatever. Right? So that's the goal with this. So here we go to animate, animate with text pro. And now we have to set the reference image, right? So we have this reference image and then we have the action description which is basically what you want the animation to be. I'll prompt the base damages with cracks and breaks into pieces. And I'll click generate. And let's see here. We have cracks. Boom. Boom. Boom. Oh, more cracks. More damage. More damage. and crumbled. And there we have 16 different frames we can choose from. So you can delete frames, you can keep any frame you like, you can edit the frames, you know, you don't have to keep them all. You don't have to make it a super long animation. But here, you can just, you know, I'll delete one or two. I'll keep the ones I like. You can delete the ones that look too much alike. And here I'll just erase a little bit of the crumbles cuz I want these to be still like the damaged vase and not the crumbling like animation. And here when it starts breaking into pieces, that's where I want it to animate. Right? So that's what I'm going to do. I'm going to tag this just so I know that's where the animation starts. And for this, since we don't really have much of the crumbling, right? I'll do the following. We'll go out of the animate with text tool and we'll try the interpolate pro tool. So, we can give it a start image and we can give it an ending image. I'll prompt the same thing. The vase damages with cracks and breaks into pieces. And I'll just click generate. And there you can see how it's actually just falling apart into pieces, which is perfect. I can of course delete some frames, you know, cuz there's a lot of things that are just like super super detailed and sometimes in pixel art, you want things to be snappy and quick, you know. So, I'll just delete what I don't want. I'll keep, of course, what I want. As you can see, there's like three frames that are the same basically. So, yeah, I'll just clean it up. I'll see if it looks good. And here you can see like there's some floating pieces. So I'm just going to move them around like manually. We don't really have to go back to prompting, you know, like these are just some details that are much more worth it to do manually than trying to get the AI model to do it for you. All right, so now let's move on to a really important part which is color palettes. So, we have this really cool tool which is called reduce colors. So, before I talk about the tool, what I'm going to do is I'm going to make a small palette with the colors that I have in this vase. And then after I'm done with that, I'm going to go to reduce colors. I'm going to click use palette. I'm going to enable process all frames. I'm going to do it in the current layer. And I'm going to hit quantize. And now what that's going to do is it's gonna keep all the sprites, all of the frames in our single color palette. Now it looks super clean. Look at that. Beautiful. The last thing I'm going to do is I'm going to just duplicate that last frame. I'm going to remove all the dust and I'm going to make that last frame just be static like that, you know. And here you go. We have our damaged base with all the hits. Damage, damage, damage, damage. animation. So, let's do the same thing with our wooden barrel. We go to animate, animate with text, set the reference image, describe what you want to happen. So, the barrel gets damaged with cracks and then breaks and turns into crumbles. Oh, and yeah, I didn't mention this, but you can choose a camera view and the direction, but I'll just choose a camera view here. I'll do low top down. But the model is pretty smart, so it doesn't really matter that much unless you're doing something really specific, of course. And let's see. There we have damage. We have a damage barrel and it breaking or crumbling. Yeah, that's pretty cool. So, let's try reduce colors. I'll do specify colors this time. So, that means you can just reduce from all the colors that are in all of those sprites. You can reduce it to a certain amount and it'll keep like the main idea with less details, right? So, I'll lower it to something like nine. I'll do current layer. And let's see. And here, well, it did a pretty nice job. It kept it clean. So, I'm just going to fix a couple of the details because I think I might have reduced too much in some some spots. As you can see, it kind of gave a little bit of the wood color to the highlights. So, I'm just going to fix that. And again, this is a reminder to not fully rely on the AI model, but to do and do some manual fixes yourself. I'm just going to delete some of the crumble here just so I can leave it for later, right? For the more advanced frames here, I'm just going to delete this part cuz it didn't really make much sense to me. And there, I I'll just tagged the animation again. And here we have a fully destructible barrel. And of course, we don't really have to use all the frames that we get cuz again, we get 16 frames and we're like, "Oh, that's cool." But in all honesty, in a lot of pixel art games, we use much less, right? It's more of a matter of if you're getting the message across with as least frames as possible, right? So here I'm just going to use three damage frames, right? Boom, boom, boom. And then it crumbles, right? Same thing with the vase. Like here we have a lot of damaged stakes, right? So we can reduce that for sure, right? And here you see it makes more sense cuz it's a vase to have less hits, right? It it can also depend on how how heavy your your asset is, right? Or how heavy it intends to be or how strong it it's supposed to be. But yeah, let's move on to the last guy, which is the statue, which is the bigger sprite, right? With bigger sprites, animate with text does less frames. So, we were doing 64x 64 and 32x 32. Those sizes, any size below 64x 64, it gives you 16 frames output. But if we go to 128x 128, we end up with a limitation. We get four frames per animation. So that means we can only get four frames and then we can extend the animation again by setting the reference image to our last frame, right? But yeah, let's try our statue. I'm going to prompt something like the statue gets damaged and cracks up. And um no, yeah, that's I'm going to leave it at that cuz we only get four frames. So this one is kind of high top down. And let's click generate. And look, there we have a pretty nice consistent amage statue. Right. So now we can go ahead and select our last frame as the reference image. And now we can change the prompt to something like the damaged statue starts crumbling into pieces. So I'll click generate and let's see. There we have it. You see that's a pretty nice crumbling animation. So let's see if we hit it. Boom. Boom. Boom. Then it crumbles. And yeah, remember it doesn't really have to be only crumbling. It can be explosions. It can be all types of stuff. So, be creative and let us know what you're creating in our Discord channel or down in the comments. I hope you like this video. So, I hope you found it useful and I'll see you in the next

=== VIDEO: Creating pixel art tilesets with PixelLab ===
Tyler. [Music] Hey everyone, welcome to the video. I'm going to talk about a few features on the Pixelab plugin. Today we're going to talk about the create texture feature, the create tile set feature, and also the experimental create tile set new. Firstly, we're going to cover the map create texture tool. When you first open up the tool, you will see a few key things. Right up top, there's a description. This is where you type any type of texture we like. It can be as detailed as possible or super simple. Just keep in mind the more context you give it, the better the results. Right below that, you'll find two drop- down menus. One for shading and one for detail. Beneath those, we have the ina image, which acts as a reference to the generator. If you have a certain uh style or look you're trying to achieve, you can use this and mess with the uh strength of it. The less it is, the more creative the model gets. Higher the more it stays true to your initial drawing. I'm going to go ahead and turn this off. Under the advanced options, we have guidance weight, which is for the description. The same thing applies to this as it did the init image. The higher it is, the stricter is going to be. The less, the more creative the model can get. Down here, we have the seeds. Normally, it's best to keep it at zero, unless you have a a seed already in mind from a previous generation. If that's the case, you can load it by clicking the select file uh button here. So, for reference, I'm just going to click one of these at random. And there we go. Wavy water with pebbles at the bottom. So, this tool is super useful whenever you're trying to enail a certain style before you generate a tile set. It's a lot faster and it's a lot easier to clean up. All right, the next tool we're going to cover is the map create tile set. This tool is super useful and it's packed full of features. Starting off, we have two tiles at the top, the inner tile and the outer tile. It allows you to set your current textures to generate in the tile set. This way, there's no guessing game on what your output would be, and you can stay true to your current style. However, if you do not have any textures, that's where the texture tool comes in for 16x6 tiles. However, this gives you the option to use 32x 32. So, if you don't have any textures, you can always just press clear on that and keep them blank. This way, it will generate the textures for you. However, I'm going to keep it 16x 16 as default. If you do not have any textures, you can describe them just like you did in the create texture tool. There is one new drop-own box in the guidance section for outlines. Again, just experiment with it and see what you like. Under the advanced options, this is where it gets kind of exciting. The border jitter is basically how noisy the outline of the tile set blob will be. The map strength is how often the tiles texture repeats. The lower it is, the more simple of a texture you will get. The higher it is, the more randomness the texture will be. Tile strength kind of the same thing. However, this is more of the detail inside the tile. The AI border freedom is basically the shape of the tile set blob. And we also have the seed option right here. This tool also allows you to export into Sprite Fusion uh via JSON. and it also saves as a PNG. It looks pretty intimidating, but honestly, it just takes a little bit of experimenting until you get the right feel of everything. Next and final tool on our list to cover which would be the experimental tool create tile set new. This one has a lot of similarities to the previous one we just covered. However, there are some core differences. As you can see, we have three tiles up top now. Uh meaning we have a true transition tile. The inner tile would be the middle tile, the in between, and then the border tile. You can set a reference image for this one. However, it will not use it one to one. It will just use it as a init image. Your descriptions are key here as well as getting a good in image. We have the same outline, shading, and details. The transition tiles size we have five options. We have none, 0.25, 0.5, 1, and two. A small example right here I can show you. So none has no elevation. 0.25 is about a quarter of a tile. CA5 is roughly half a tile. These do not change the height of the uh tile set. However, it does give you elevation in the transition. You go down here to the CA and CA2. The CA1 increases the tile size by one and the CA2 increases it by two. This is all relative to which size you select in the tile size. Again, you have two options in this one. Tile strength is a guidance for the reference image you set and the guidance weight would be for the descriptions. Just like [Music] [Music] before. You can also export this into sprite fusion. You just have to go back to the map, then create tile set, export to sprite fusion. This will only work on the first three options of transition sizes, the none, 0.25, and.5. I believe that's everything for this tutorial. I'm just going to show off a time lapse of the three tools working together and how you can export them to Sprite Fusion and also export them to game engines. I appreciate you watching. If you have any questions, feel free to comment below and also reach out to us on Discord. [Music] again from grassy [Music] fields on the back. But don't [Music] youretare a helpful box floats in the air. It's called create tile set. Oh, let's see the [Music] options. Open up the tile set guide. Let the textures flow inside. Got your inner transition out on your own. You can use old textures if you set them there with joyful ease, but descriptions are the way to go. Tell the description like the sea. Oh, the You agree? Outer description finishes the scene. Put your words in. Make [Music] it. Open up the tile. Set. Let the textures flow. Got your inner transition [Music] out. Next. The style, the look, the flare. Outline shading everywhere. How wide the blend transition size and tile size right before your eyes. Choose your palette if you need a seed. A new frame blooms it down below. Check the box or leave it. The time to generate is there. Hit the button. Watch it build. Your tile set is now fulfilled. Save the time. It's done. So neat. Your pixel art can't be beat.

=== VIDEO: Tutorial： Generating pixel art tilesets ===
How would you feel if I told you you can create this map in minutes? Stay till the end of the video to see exactly how I did it. So, today we're going to be looking at high top- down tile sets. This is going to be a fun video cuz you're going to be able to create a full map. I'm going to be covering how to create the tile sets, how to export them, and how to import them to go do pretty easily. So, let's get right into it. So the first thing we're going to do is go to the map tools and to create tile set high top down. So this might seem overwhelming at first, but it's pretty easy to handle. So the first things we're going to see are the different tiles we're going to have in our tile set. So the higher elevation tile, the transition tile, and the lower elevation tile. What does this mean? So in a tile set you have a top tile and a lower tile or let's say basically your main tile and your secondary tiles and then the transition which will be like a wall or something around that. Right? Then we have the outline, shading and details like we have in most of our tools which we can select of course. We can do different outlines or we can do lineless. We can do flat shading up to high detailed shading. We can keep it basic for now. We can do low detail to highly detailed. We can keep it low for now. And let's do single color outline. So next up we have the transition size. And this is what this is for. So you here you can choose none. And when you choose none, you lose the transition tile text box cuz you're not going to use it. And then you have 0.25 tiles, which is going to be a pretty small wall. And then you have 0.5, which is like the standard wall you see in most games. And finally, we have one tile walls, which are pretty big walls, but this is still in beta. So, it's not perfect yet. It's still in the works. So, let's keep it 0.5. And then we have tile size. For tile size, we have 16x 16 and 32x 32. We're going to keep it 16x 16 for now. And then I'll show you 32x32 so you can see both. Now the next setting we have is tacet adherence. So tacet adherence that you can read here increase tet adherence for more consistent tile set at the cost of quality. So the more tile set adherence you have the more it's going to follow the shape of a standard tile set with the standard corners etc. Freedom also changes this. So the more freedom the less is going to follow that standard square tile set shape and the less freedom the more it's going to follow it. Also one thing to note is that the tile set adherence setting if you have a tile set up here as an in initial image or as a reference tile for the higher elevation tile transition tile and lower elevation tiles. it will try to look more like those tiles. Next up, we have the target palette which we can use no palette, our color palette which will be here or the current image if we have one. So let's try for the higher elevation tile. Let's try going with grass. For the transition description, let's keep it as rocks. And for the lower elevation tile, let's do dirt. So we can have a grass and dirt towel set. And let's just click generate. As you can see, I was in a 32x32 project, but as as soon as you click generate, it makes the correct canvas size and it starts making the image in that canvas size. And as you can see, it's generating all the tiles and then it's going to merge them all together and give you a tile set just as you're seeing it right now. happening live. And there we have our grass with the rock walls and the dirt. We have a full tile set. Now, what if we want to use one of these tiles and generate extra tiles besides those, right? We could always select the grass tile and let's put it as the higher elevation tile. And let's keep that as the higher elevation tile. Then we can do rocks as transition description again. And then maybe we can do water for the lower elevation tile. We can maybe change the transition size to 0.25. And now it's going to use this grass tile and make newer rock tiles and new water tiles. So let's click generate. And there you have it. We have the grass with the water and it's still using the same grass tile as you can see. And the wall is smaller, right? So now you have two different tile sets with the same grass tiles but different side tiles. You could basically make different environments with the same grass and basically have more consistency across your game. Before we move on to exporting tiles, let's try 32x 32 tiles. I'm going to try maybe sand as the higher elevation tile description. I'm going with none as transition size. And I'm going with water as lower elevation. So let's make a small beach tile set. I'm going to keep the tile set adherence at 100 or 101. tile strength at 10, which is the default. And let's click generate. As you can see, now it made it a 256x 256 image instead of the 128x 128 we had before because the tiles are bigger, twice the size. And there we have our sand with water tile set and just two word prompts. So you can do 16x6 or 32x 32. And now let's move on to exporting the tile sets. So when you are at the create tile set window here at the bottom you can see the export as tile set button. So when you click that you will get a couple options for the target layout. If you click the dropown you can export it as a tile set wang which will export it as a JSON file. You can export it as a tile set 15 which uses 15 tiles and then you can do a 3x3 which is a go dot specific template which has I think 43 tiles but in this case we're going to do tile set 15 and you can also open it as a sprite just to preview it. So we can do that. And as you can see for grass and dirt tile set, this is the 15 tile. So this is one, two, three, four, etc. It goes 15 tiles. This is what we're going to use to export it to go dot because we're going to use a plugin called dual grid tiles which makes it so easy to make a tile map in go. So, I'm going to export this grass and dirt tile to set and this grass and water tile set and we're going to create a small map with that. So, let's do export as tile set 15 grass and dirt. Boom. Then export as tile grass and water. Okay, so I'm here in go dot. I already made a 2D project. Just in case you haven't set this up, go to project settings. Scroll down to rendering. Click textures. And here where it says default texture filter, click nearest just so your pixel art can be crisp. So you're going to search dual grid go dot on Google and you're going to scroll a little bit until you find the GitHub link. for the Tableau Gilla tile map duel. So, this plugin allows you to make pretty nice and smooth rule tiles or auto tiles with this 15 tile setup. And I'm going to show you just how to import it and do it really quickly. We're also going to have the link of this below in the description, but if you want, you can always search it in Google. So the first thing you're going to do here in the GitHub is click this code button and download it as a zip. Now that you've downloaded that as a zip, you can uncompress it, get to the folder, and you will see this add-ons folder. Here in the add-ons folder, you can see the actual plugin, which is talap duel. In our project or in my project, I already made an add-ons folder, but if you don't have an add-ons folder, you can just drag and drop the full add-ons folder to your project. If you do have an add-ons folder, you can just drag and drop the tile map duel to the add-ons folder. And as you can see, I have the tile map dual folder right here with the add-ons. And now that you've imported the plugin, you go to project project settings, plugins, and you got to enable the tile map duel. Now that you've enabled that, now start making the tile map. Let's import our tile sets. I'm going to drag them into my tutorial folder. And here you can see the two tile sets. And now we're going to create a new tile map dual node in our scene. So we click create. Here we have the tile map duel. And the next thing we have to do is create a tile set. So here in the tile set, we create a new tile set. Here we have the tile map and the tile set tabs. Now we go to the tile set tab and we drag our grasser tile set to this box here. It asks you if you want it to automatically create the tiles and we can click yes. And here it automatically cut it up perfectly. Now if you go to the tile map tab and you go to terrains you can see you have the two terrains already set up. You can start drawing your map. Here I'm drawing a little bit of the grass. Now if I click here I can draw the dirts. Now what do we do with this tile set right? So same thing we go to tile set to the tile set tab. We drag the grass and water tile set. Click yes and we can go to tile map and we can just draw water. Look at that. So we can basically either have full field of grass, right? Or we can have an ocean or a lake or whatever and a small island, right? We can make an island right here. Maybe a little bigger. And we can start drawing some dirt paths. We can also draw some water inside. Have some little lakes or rivers, right? and make it like connect to the ocean. You can get creative here. Also, we can do paths, etc. I think this is pretty powerful. You can really start making maps quickly. You can even maybe go and make a house and put it here. Let's try that. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to make a tile set here in a sprite out of these two tile sets or out of this layer basically. And I'm going to convert to tile map 16x6. And there we have the tile map. So now let's expand this image to let's say 300 by 300. Now I'm just going to paint a little bit of a map just to have some context right for the model. Now I'm going to go to the map tool and I'm going to go to extend map. And here we are going to inpaint wherever we want the house. So I'm going to do a brush. I'm going to paint on the in painting layer and I'm going to paint some nice area for a house. There we go. Here I'm going to describe it. I'm just going to say a house. Let's do high top down. Let's do selective outline basic shading low detail. So 16 by 16. And we're doing use selection tool to select painting area. So we're going to select this area like so. As you can see, here's our inpainted area. And now I'm going to do the output method to new layer with changes. Let's click generate. I'm going to hide the inpainting layer just so we can see. And there we have a nice little house perfectly consistent with the style of the tiles. It even gives some shadows, but you can of course remove that. So how would I export this? I would hide the other layers and I would just come here and delete the background. Right. Boom. And there we have it. We have a little house. Of course, we can make the canvas size smaller. So, we can make it, I don't know, 64x 64. Center it and ready to ship. We can export it or we can import it to our project and just drag it to our map. And there we have it. We have a nice house and a nice little map. You can of course always go back to a sprite and fix your sprites, which is always a recommended thing to do. Or you can try to do new generations with this as a base. So we can maybe go to extend map again and one more time using the selection tool, we select and click generate. I'm going to try to make a farmhouse this time. And there we have it. Another really nice farmhouse, keeping the style consistent with the map every single time. And of course, you can try to do other things like trees. Let's try that. So, we could imprite the description, maybe a oak tree, and select this. Or we could even select the house as well, just so it has more context of the map. And click generate. And there we have it. a really cool tree fitting the map. If you like this video, make sure to leave a like, comment down below what you would like to see next, share this video with your friends, and don't forget to subscribe and hit that notification bell so you don't miss any of our videos. Thanks for watching. I'll catch you in the next

=== VIDEO: How To Create Isometric Animals for Games Using PixelLab (Full Workflow) ===
Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. So, I've been working on an isometric zoo game prototype, and today I'll show you how I'm creating the animals using Pixel Lab, of course, from start to finish. So, before we start, you'll notice I already have a few bears in the game. These were the first animals I made for the prototype and they're what I used just to test the systems. So, what I'm going to do in this video is break down how I made the bears step by step. I'll start by creating one bear from scratch, just a single example, and walk through the full process inside Pixel Lab. So, at this point, I needed a new bear design since I already had most of the basic bear types done. So, I decided to make something a bit different, a stripeback bear. For this, I went into the create character tool and I switched to pro mode. Keep in mind, it costs more generations. So, I set the camera to height top down, chose my canvas size, and then I just hit generate. Once the character finished generating, I clicked edit in Pixelorama so I could just handle the rotations. Before doing anything else, I used the reduce colors tool to clean things up just to make the sprite more readable before animating. I also saved the color palette from the cleaned up bear. So that way I can reuse the same palette when I reduce colors on the animations later. After that, I saved it back to the character creator and moved on to animations. So I clicked add animation. And as you can see, there's a lot of templates here. I'm starting with walking though, just using the six frame walk cycle. Since this is an isometric game, I'm only animating the diagonal directions, so I don't really need the full set. There's this generation I liked. So, I opened that one in Pixelama and reduce the colors using the palette I saved earlier. I did have to clean it up a bit by hand. just a few random pixels I didn't like. But this is important. Always clean up your generations manually. Don't just leave them exactly how they come out of the prompt. Make the adjustments that feel right. I repeated the same process with another animation I liked, but this time I reduced the colors a little too much and it ended up a little bit flat. So instead, I cleaned it up manually first and then I used edit animation and I prompted it to add a bit more shading, which honestly it kind of did the trick. So after that, again, I reduced the colors one more time, saved to character creator, and put the bear in the game. And look at that. Pretty nice. All right, so let's try a different animal now. a bison. I went back to the character creator, still using the pro mode. And for the base, I'm actually picking the bear template since it's the closest match. But honestly, with pro mode, the template doesn't really matter. So, same exact settings as the bear. And there we go. From here, again is the same process. I edit in Pixelorama for the rotations, reduce the colors, and move straight into animation. Once again, I'm only animating the diagonal directions using the six frame walk cycle. You can see that in some of these generations, the legs start to struggle a bit. When that happens, you can always hit retry and see if you get a better result, which a lot of times you actually do. But in this case, I really like the Southwest one. So, I took that into Pixarama and cleaned it up manually as best as I could. Remember, I'm not a pixel artist, so this is really just about making it readable. For the Northwest animation, the legs weren't really working at all. So, I went into edit animation. I temporarily reduced the canvas size to 64x 64 just so I can work with more frames and then I prompted it with something like fix the walking legs. Simple as that. And as you can see, it's not perfect at all, but for a prototype, it works. And you can clearly see all the four legs. After that, I set the canvas size back to 92 by 92 and saved it back to Character Creator and exported the bison. Next up, I made a sheep. This time, I actually forgot to reduce the colors at first, so I just animated it and did that part afterwards. But, as you can see with the sheep, the walking animations worked a lot better right away. So, it really depends on the animal. That's just something to keep in mind. Of course, I still did a few manual cleanups. I wanted it to look a bit nicer and you don't always have to regenerate everything. Sometimes it's literally just copy pasting parts of a frame you like and fixing things by hand. And here you can see the bison and the sheep in the game, which is pretty nice. Next up, I made a horse. At this point, I'm skipping the character creation part since we've done it a few times already. So here I'm just jumping straight into the animations. Once again, the legs were kind of struggling in the walk cycle. So I did the same thing as before. I edited it in Pixelorama, reduced the canvas size to 64x 64, added all the frames, and prompted fix the walking legs. And as you can see, I got a decent result. It's not perfect, but good enough for what I need right now. And from there, I just fixed the face manually across the other frames. I just copy and pasted it where I need it and saved it back to Character Creator. And here you can see the result of the same process with the southeast animation as well. And there we go. We have a horse in the game. So before we wrap up, I just want to show one last workflow that I use a lot. Instead of creating a new animal from scratch, you can take one you already have like this horse and use it as a reference to make new variations. So for this, I opened the horse in a sprite, but you could also do it in Pixarama. And I changed the canvas size to 64x 64 again because of the frame count. And then I went to edit animation. So I selected the two animation directions we have and then I selected all the frames from those animations. From here it's just prompting. I used something simple like make the horse have no saddle and be lighter skinned with brown hair and just hit generate and bam, there's a new horse. This works especially well when you already have a good base. So, it's specific to this setup, but the idea itself can be used in a lot of different ways. So, let's make a couple more before we're done. Here's one with spots and white hair. Really cool. And one more. Let's try a black horse with brown hair. And there we go. And as you can see, it kept the saddle here since we didn't really prompt for it to be removed. So, that's just another thing to keep in mind. just prompts wisely. And here's all of them walking in the game. All right, so that's it for today. If this was helpful, feel free to subscribe or leave a comment. And I'll see you in the next one.

=== VIDEO: Tutorial： Learn how to animate, rotate and inpaint your character ===
hi in this video I will show you our plugin in the free pixel art editor pixel Rama which can be run in the browser in this video I will go through how to generate a character how to rotate your character how to create animations and how to use in painting to add equipment I will timestamp the different parts so if there's anything in particular you're interested in you can skip ahead to that part so to start off let's create a character so here I have chosen create medium to extra large image which is our flux model so if you hover over a certain um setting you can see there is a hint which is something that is visible in pix but not in a Sprite so that's a good thing to know so I'm thinking let's create a female Merchant in a brown dress and we want to uh remove the background and once we're happy with the settings we uh click generate all right we have our character so I'm just going to select the pette instead and now I want to show you reduce colors so here I have automatic but you can also select um how many colors you want and uh you can also select your palette instead and it just basically uh removes any artifacts where it's like lots of different colors which is quite nice and I'm just going to clean up the Sprite real quick and then we will move on to uh the rotation tool so sometimes when you generate you might not get the uh direction that you wanted so to fix that uh you can use the rotate tool to uh yeah fix the direction or the view if you're unhappy with that it doesn't it's not always an issue but if it is it's uh good thing to know that you can always do it afterwards so here I'll go from Southwest to South which I believe is like the position my character is standing in and then remember to set your from image and yeah just click generate now you have a couple of options either you could manually which I'm doing right here uh fix up any things that you think should be different or you could use this uh uh new character as a init image and just let the model uh generate a new character but based on the correct uh Direction and view now I want to uh generate my characters are looking to the West instead so all I do is the same thing but now I want my two direction to be West instead and yeah that's all you need to do to rotate your character I will just quickly clean up my image a bit and then we will move on to the next thing which is how you can generate animations some shortcuts I recommend learning are P for pencil tool M to move around or the uh scroll button e for erase and O to pick colors when you're happy with your character and you think it's time to uh create some animations you can go over to animate with skeleton the first thing you want to do is to uh create a skeleton template so here I am setting my character as the reference and what's nice with the pixel Rama is that there's this tool on the right side which is the same as edit skeleton which just allows you to uh move the points and the shortcut is G uh for edit skeleton and here I just want to make sure that the uh the skeleton is as good as possible so once we uh insert the template it will be at the like highest quality you might still want to go through the template and uh move some points if you feel like it's necessary it's not like incredibly important that the points are perfect but the better you make them like the better the quality of your uh generation will be uh so I'm thinking we can do um walk uh four frames just to quickly show you how it's done uh remember to uh change the template Direction so it faces the same direction as your character and uh yeah here I insert without uh forcing the head like the head points which has a tendency to um negatively impact the uh the quality of the face of your character so here I'm just going to force it instead and now you can see like the uh the head the points of the head is like stays the same and similar to um my previous tutorial I will start off by freeze one generate two frames I will link that tutorial as well but it's in aprite instead done I hope that uh everything is basically the same but uh there have been a few small changes but the the thinking is the same all right nice since we are since we will be generating the future frames based on these frames I highly recommend trying to uh clean up the images a bit before generating the next frame because if these are bad they will have a yeah negative impact on future Generations so the better that you make them the better the next frame will be so now I will do freeze two and generate one frame and I positioned myself on the eighth frame so eighth and the ninth frames are like reference images which will help the model understand what the next frame will look like but as you can see in this uh generated oh yeah I'm just going to fix this first so here I take the hand that I likeed more in the other frame and uh add it to this Frame as well and um yeah just fixing the size a bit but yeah as you can see like the uh the arm is the same as in the eighth frame and it's supposed to be the opposite so here I'm just going to be using in painting and uh in it image to help the model understand which arm should behind and in front of which which is like a very powerful tool to uh yeah make the model do what you want uh thankfully it did the legs correctly so here I'm just inating so I went over to the in painting layer and now I am wherever I draw now is where the model can edit and just for you guys uh e is the arrays o is like picking the color and P is for like the pencil tool and here you can see um I click in use in painting and you can see like in the UI it's black which means that's where it's going to edit oh yeah I forgot in it image all right if you don't use uh in it image the model won't uh be able to see what's underneath the in painting so don't forget to toggle that on all right as you can see we got our arm correctly placed there and here I'm just copy pasting the hair because I kind of liked it that it was longer which was why I kept it and for the last image we don't need in painting we don't need a init image we just do like we did the previously we position ourselves on the ninth frame so the ninth and 10th Frame will be like reference so the model will have more knowledge and understanding when generating the 11th frame or that's like the fourth frame in the animation all right we have our frames so now I'm just going to tag this so that I can show you what the animation uh looks like so I'm selecting all the four frames new tag then if you right click and you go to uh properties you can change like the frame duration so it's it's not like super fast and then uh on the right here you can click uh play all right there's some color changes which isn't perfect but as the tool becomes better I think when this is released we will have made another update to animate skeleton so hopefully it will be even better uh but yeah now I want to show you the in painting so remember to go over to the in painting layer and here I forgot to make it visible so I can't draw in it and just draw where you want to in paint and here I am showing the like the current in painting tool but we also have a the experimental one which I will show after so yeah just remember to uh inpaint in the in painting layer and you will see that it shows up as like black in the UI where it will draw all right let's uh go over to the experimental one I think this also has had an update since I did this tutorial Things Are always changing you know getting better and I can reuse the same in painting and I forgot to change it to new frame you can use new layer as well but I think it's easier for demonstration that we create a new frame instead for I'm not super happy with the results so let's uh try again and see if uh it does better on a second try and yeah I think that looks better so remember it's always worth to uh try again and see if it does better the second time so yeah I hope you found this helpful and useful if you have any questions feel free to ask them here or preferably in Discord so you can share an image of what you're struggling with and we can uh give you some input and tips on how to uh get the tools to uh to do what you want and yeah I will see you in the next video

=== VIDEO: AI Builds a Godot Game From Scratch ｜ PixelLab MCP + Claude Code Workflow ===
Hello guys, welcome back to the Pixel Lab channel. Today we're going to be looking at VIP coding with Pixelab and we're going to be making a small game with Cloud Code and Go dot as their game engine. It's worth mentioning that you can of course use the Pixel Lab MCP with any of the IDE such as VS Code, Cursor, Windurf, even like Perplexity Desktop or other MCP clients which you can just get your code. So what can we do with the Pixel app MCP? Exactly. Well, you can see here the available tools which are create character, animate character, make top- down tile sets, make sides scroller tile sets and isometric tiles. Of course, we're also making new tools and we're working on new additions to the MCP, but that's what we have available right now. You can also find different information here and how it can be helpful to your workflow. And of course, we can see the installation steps right here. So, you just click the IDE you're using. And today, for example, we're going to be using cloud code. And here, you can just copy the code, open your terminal, and run the command above. For cursor, it would be open the cursor settings and follow these steps. But, as I said, we're going to be using cloud code today. And I really do recommend using cloud code specifically if you're using go dot as your game engine because the other tools like cursor you can of course use cloud and cursor but the usage gets kind of limited and the other models like the other LLM such as GPT or Gemini they do kind of struggle with GDScript and with the go dot engine in general making scenes and stuff like that. They do struggle with that. So that's just a recommendation to use cloud code or cloud in general for go dot. All right. So the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to create characters. I'm going to go to the characters creator page and I was thinking on maybe making a survival farmer game like a bro clone but wouldn't like farmer theme. So basically, you're a farmer. You have to survive against waves of anthroamorphic animals from the farm. So let's make a farmer first. So I'm going to prompt a male farmer wearing a blue overall. I'm going to do 64x 64 and do high top down. And I'm going to do realistic male. You can also go to advanced options and do shading and stuff like that. But of course, we covered that in our prior videos on the character creator page. So, if you haven't watched that, make sure to go ahead and watch it. So, I'm going to click create. And the reason why I'm making a character in the character creators page and not right away with the MCP tools is because I want to see the character and see if there's any tray pixels, if there's anything I should fix before we import it to our engine. But you could, of course, start with the MCP and just tell it to create a character. Just keep in mind, you won't be able to just edit it right away. You would have to then go into either Acebride or the website itself and edit it. So that's why we're making it first in the site. So here we have our farmer with the blue overall. We can always of course go to edit and pixelama just to clean up whatever pixels we want and that way when we animate it won't propagate the mistakes we have in here. Just a couple of cleanups just to make sure everything looks good. And when you're happy just click save character creator and click refresh and it should be all good. So now we're ready to animate and go with a couple animations. I'm going to do idle gonna generate in the background so I can keep choosing other animations. I'm also going to do walking with six frames. Generate in the background. I'm also going to do running with six frames. Also generate in the background. And you can see how they're generating already. We also want a punching animation. So let's do a cross punch. And I think we can end up with fallen back death animation. Of course, you can clean them up again with editing pixelama or you can delete and redo the animation, which I will probably do. I'm going to ceue up the other directions. As you can see, there's a maximum of 10 background jobs. So, I'll keep that in mind. Got to be a little patient. You can see I can just edit this walking animation on whatever frame I don't like. And then we can just hit refresh. And there you have it. You can see how I'm just deleting a couple of the animations and just redoing them. All right. So now that I'm happy with that player, I'm just going to call it farmer main character just so I can find it easier after. And now I'm going to do the same process for our first enemy. It's going to be it's going to be an anthropomorphic chicken. And it's going to be high top down realistic male. I'm going to do the same shading. So flat shading. And I'm going to create the character. And basically the same process that we did for our player. For this one, I'm going to do a scary walk since they're like enemies, maybe like zombie like animals. Who knows? All right. So now that we're happy with their animations, we can call this chicken enemy and we can start making our game. So before we do that, remember to set up your pixel lab mcp. So for cloud code, we would go to terminal, right? Like it says here, open your terminal, run the command above. So you would copy this and it would say your authorization code here. So I'm going to do that. And as you can see, it says my MCP server is already configurated because I already installed it. But it would just say that it's installing and it should be all set up with just that one command. So the first thing I'm going to do is open Go dot and create a new project which I'm going to call Farm Animals Survival Arena. I'm going to use a compatibility renderer and I'm going to put it on my desktop just so I can locate it easier. And boom, we got our project. So cool. Now that we have our project created, we can open up our terminal and we can locate our folder path. So thing you can do is either go here to the folder, locate your folder, rightclick and go to services and do new terminal add folder which is the easy way or if you don't want to do that you can just go to get info copy here where it says where copy that which is the path and here in the terminal just type in cd which is change directory paste to path and write the folder name, which would be farm animals survival arena. And there we have it. Now we're in our folder and we can start using Claude. So to start using Claude, we just have to type in Claude and then it will ask you to trust the files in the folder. We say yes. And now we're all set up. We can start making our game. So the first thing I'm going to prompt Claude is that we're in God 4.4. That's the version I'm using, but you can use any other version. And we're making a small game inspired by potato where the main player is a farmer survivor. We have to survive against waves of anthropomorphic farm animals. I want you to read the Pixel Lab MCP documentation and write a plan. ND where you plan out the game structure phases of development and references to the Pixel Lab tools. I'm going to copy and paste the link of the documentation which we'll have down in the description. And I'm also going to tell it to only write the LAN.md and make sure to always keep it updated when we make new changes. And boom. Let's see. So here you can see it asks me for permission and you will see it asks us for permission to do any new action. All right. So now that it made the plan, let's read it real quick before we accept everything. Here it gave us the game concept, the core game loop, the development phases. It says create character, but it will tell you we already made a character, but we can make new characters after with the MCP just so you can see how that works as well. And there we have the tool references, which is always good to have it. So, I'm going to say yes and allow all edits during the session. Now, I'm going to tell it that I already made two characters. So, I want you to download them using the Pixel Lab MTP. They're called chicken enemy and farmer main character. Download them and import them to the projects. And for context, we're using 64x 64 realistic style characters. So, import them and update the plan. As you can see, it will look up the characters. Of course, you got to see yes and don't ask again. Same thing for the downloads. And like I said, it asks you to give permission for every new action. So, if you guys want to skip that and want to avoid having to say yes every single time, there is a command that we can run right before we start using Claude. When we open up a terminal, which I'll show you in just a second after it's done importing the characters. All right. So, now it said it downloaded and imported the characters. So, let's go to go out and see. Here we have the assets, we have our chicken, we have our player, and we have all the animations. So, you can just tell it to look up your character, and it will fetch it and download it and import it with just one prompt. And you don't even have to give it the IDs. You can just tell it the names, and it'll work. So now for that command that I mentioned for being able to skip the yes every time, I'm going to exit this real quick and I'm going to open up the terminal one more time. And now instead of just typing in claude, we're going to do claude and then dash dangerously dash skip dash permissions. And that way it will skip every question you get asked if you want to allow something to happen. Now keep in mind this is at your own risk. So be careful using it. But now that we're back here, I can either resume our conversation, which I will do, or I could just start over. But I'm just going to resume this conversation. And now I'm going to tell it to actually start making the game, right? I'm going to tell it to make the game scene with the characters and make use of all the animations with their game play. All right. So, right now, it told me to run a script to set up the animations, but I really wanted to do it by itself. So, I'm just going to tell it to make the animation work automatically. We don't want to set up anything manually. All right. Right. So, it made a couple of new text files, which I'll check just to see what's up with that. But it seems like it's made everything. So, let's see. Let's reload this. And let's hit play. Let's see if anything works. Oh, well, we got the chickens. We don't have our player. So, let's tell it that. Meanwhile, I want to check those text files while it's fixing the bugs. So the read me is basically another overview of the game, the setup. It's basically giving the structure, I guess, and again instruction on how to play the game. And of course, we have our plan. All right, cool. So it seems like it fixed it. Let's see. Let's hit play. Don't worry about these errors. Nope, still no player, but I can move, which is good. So it seems like the character is still not visible. So, as you can see, it's asking me to run it and tell it what I see in the console. But we can actually just give it our go.path. So, if you find your go app, wherever it's located, I can just get the info, tell it where it is. I'm going to tell it this is the path for my go.app. You run it and test it. And now it can test it without us having to go in and copy and paste the errors or whatever. Oh, so I can't see anything. Wow, that's such a weird bug. All right, let's test it now. Oh, there it is. Nice. Oh, cool. Yeah. All right, so now I'm just going to tell it to fix the jittery camera. Much better. All right, so now I want it to actually make the player attack. All right, let's test it one more time. Oh no. Oh well, that's a little glitchy. So, let's fix that. Context is low. So, I'm just going to run compact and finish fixing the bugs. I'm just going to tell it to rewrite the combat logic so we can move on. And there we go. Finally have it working. Okay, I just need the chickens to attack us a little bit more, but we can attack them, which is good. I'm just going to tell it to fix the animations. So, and just one small thing, I'm going to tell to make it WSAD cuz it only put the arrow keys. Hey, that all works. I'm just going to tell it to bring back the normal waves. And we can make new enemies now. And maybe a to hats. Cool. So, now I trust it. Fix it. So now let's tell it to create anthropomorphic cow character heroic style 64x 64 eight directions and when finished animates it with carry walk animation. We'll ask that just for now and then we'll ask for the other animations. I'm doing this just to show you how you can create the character using DMCP and also why we use the create character page instead of DMCP because we'll probably have some weird pixels. Hopefully not, but usually we do require at least a little bit of manual cleanup. But if you just need prototyping characters, then you could definitely just use the MCP and not leave your IDE. All right. So, the character is done and it's still finishing the scary walk animation. So, I'll just tell it to queue up an idle animation as well and a throw animation cuz I want it to be different. And also, you should know in general cla or the other idees, they do usually put a timer just to automatically check. In this case, it didn't, but just be aware that it usually does that. It usually checks automatically if it's done or not, but in this case, I'm just going to ask it to check. And also keep in mind that the character you ask it to make, it will be in your character's creator page. So here you can see our cow and the animations is made already. But we'll go back here. Oh well, it queued up an attack animation, which I didn't really want. But I guess we can use it when the player is close to that enemy. it just punches you and when it's far from it, it uses the throw animation. But again, I needed to queue up throw animation which it missed. All right, so it seems like cloud code got a little confused while trying to finish all the rotations. And well, this can happen sometimes if you ask for too many animations at once. So if it fails on a specific direction, you can either tell the AI to reue the missing directions or you can do it manually like I am right now. And here we can see the reason why we don't usually want to do finalized characters with only the MCP cuz here for example we have a jab attack with I don't know a spell. It's something we could probably just recreate or edit manually. And it's the same with the rotation. It has a shirt in the back and it doesn't have a shirt in the front, which is things we usually can fix when we create the character here or after we get the character. It all depends on your workflow and on your main goal. All right, now that we have all our animations, now we can tell it download the character with its animations, import it, and create a cow enemy. It should be able to throw a projectile when far and punch when the player is close. So to use the icon. SVG in the project as a placeholder for the projectile. And then I'll give it a sprite. All right, let's see if the cow is in the game. Well, I don't see no cow. I'm going to tell it to add the cow to the waves cuz I guess it just made the cow and it didn't add it, which is fair. I want to see it. All right, let's see. Oh, wow. It works. You got the cow. It has a really long range. Look at that. It has a super long range, but it works, which is nice. Nice hard. I'm going to tell it to range rows and less cows more chicken. Let's go our harder. There we go. Nice. All right. So, now I'm going to compact this conversation because we're running out of context and I think it's time to make a tile set. All right. So, now I'm going to tell it to use the Pixel Lab MCP and make a top down 32x 32 grass and dirt tile sets. I'm going to tell it to check and download it and import it to the project. All right. So, it should be in our project now. See? Yep, there it is. Now, let's tell it to use the tile set and make a map with it. As you can see, it read the documentation. It basically knows how to use the tile sets we made with Pixel app. All right. So, let's test it. We don't have a tile set. I'm just going to touch fix it and let's see. All right. So, you got kind of confused and it made a map scene and it didn't make the map inside of our game scene. So, I think now it's going to fix it and we should be good. So, make sure to be as specific as you can with each prompt because if not, we'll just end up here. All right, we're almost there. Now, we have a map and we just need to get rid of that green box from the player. Oh, we lost. All right. So, now that we have our map, we have a couple of enemies, we have our attacks, our death animation, I think we're just missing a projectile, and maybe some droppable items, and we should be good to go. All right, so for the projectile, I think I'm going to use the API instead of going to Ace Pride or Pixelama. So to use the API, we need to go to the Pixelab website. And we need to go to the API tab. And here you'll see your API key, your subscription, and the generations you have available, which are going to be used before the credits. And then you have documentation and the AI documentation which if you click you'll see we copied the actual docs which we can just give to the AI like claude or chat GPT or cursor or whatever and it'll read it and be able to use the API. Of course, you have to give it your API key and then it'll use it. So that's what I'm going to do. I'm going to go to the terminal. I'm going to copy and I'm going to paste the link and I'm going to say read the docs. We're going to create jigs with the API. All right. So now I'm going to give it my API key and I'm going to say use my API key and I'm going to say create a bucket of milk top down 32 by 32. I'm going to be a little bit more specific. And as you can see, if you go to the docs, you can see the tools that are available. So, for example, you have generate image with Pix Flux or Bit Forge. I'm going to say use it for generate image. All right. So, we should have a new asset now. There we have it. We didn't really ask to remove the background. So, I'm going to do one more and tell it to remove the background. I'm going to tell it to make one more bucket of milk and use the remove background setting. All right, there we go. Now, we have the transparent bucket of milk and we can tell it to use that as a projectile for the cow. And let's see. There we have it. Cool. So now I think we should just have some droppable items and we should be all set. So I'm going to tell it to make a wheat item which the enemy will drop. It will give me health and make sure it's transparent. All right. Now here we can see our wheat image. Pretty nice. And now we can test it. Yep, there it is. It heals us and we can keep playing. So, I think we can leave it here for today. I hope you found this useful and I hope you found some potential with the Pixel Lab MCP and the API, which I think are pretty cool and can make your workflow really nice. So, make sure to check it out and let us know what projects you're working on. If you enjoyed this video, please make sure to leave a like, comment, and subscribe. Thanks for watching and I'll catch you in the next video.
